Greetings everyone. It is time for ARCs
big ideas 2026 and I'm pretty excited
about it and I have to tell you right up
front I'm standing on the shoulders of
the research team and actually the
marketing team and compliance and you
know really almost all the teams at ARC
uh especially Katie Keith and Walker who
spent eight hours to 16 hours a day in
the last few days to uh really make this
the final push. So very happy to
introduce it to you again. Uh and so
I'll go very quickly uh through uh what
hit me uh as we have been going through
our research this past year and how we
crystallized it in big ideas. I'd like
to start with uh a section we're calling
the great acceleration.
uh and what we're uh trying to
communicate is that AI is in early
stages still and that it has miles to
go. Uh sure it feels like it's a hype
cycle because capital spending in the
tech and telecom uh sectors as a percent
of GDP is nearly as high now as it was
during the tech and telecom bubble. Uh
but if you will remember the tech and
telecom bubble laid fiber and most of it
remained dark. Uh today
uh the GPUs are driving this cycle and
uh and I'll steal from uh Brad Gersonner
at Altimter. He's saying those aren't
dark. They're in short supply and they
are being used. Uh and we agree
completely with that. uh we compare this
capital spending cycle uh to the
railroads in the 1800s that got up to
five to six% of GDP and then uh the
automobile uh explosion
in the early 1900s that got up to 3 to
4% of GDP and then we get to the tech
and telecom bubble that when you added
software and hardware comm equipment
together. That was about the same size
as the auto capital spending cycle. And
uh we're about there now with in this
cycle with AI, robotics, energy storage,
uh multiomic sequencing, blockchain
technology. But we think we're going a
lot higher. we think we will go up to
our capital spending as a percent of GDP
will rise to 12%.
Uh and I'll get into some of the reasons
why but key is productivity as usual
economics productivity.
Uh so uh we've we believe we're fairly
early in this cycle. So let me uh before
I go on to some of the productivity
gains that we see uh also highlight that
as a result of this investment boom
uh and the increased productivity that
we see we believe that real GDP growth
will accelerate towards the 7% plus
range uh by 2030.
uh the ingredients are all there and it
is also a hallmark of technology
revolutions that we see a step function
change in GDP. Uh the 400 years until
1900 for example uh global GDP averaged
0.6%.
And then in the late 1800s, early 1900s,
of course, we had the railroads, uh we
had telephone, electricity, the internal
combustion engine, a technology
revolution. Uh that 0.6% real GDP growth
went to 3% for the last 125 years. Uh
and so that was a fivefold step up in
GDP growth. We're saying maybe a two and
a half uhfold step up, but I actually
think that's conservative uh given the
five innovation platforms evolving at
the same time. Robotics, energy storage,
artificial intelligence,
uh multiomic sequencing, and blockchain
technology. Uh and those innovation
platforms are converging.
uh and that's what's causing the great
acceleration here. So I'll take you
through uh a few of the stats and and
the aha moments we've had this year uh
as we were doing our research. So Frank
and Joseph on the uh AI infrastructure
side. Uh so we believe that the data
center uh in uh infrastructure cycle
which uh is at about 500 billion now up
from up two and a half times from prej
chat GBT that that is actually going to
1.4 trillion dollars per year uh by
2030. Thank goodness we had the chat GBT
moment because that was the aha moment
for all of us uh as we're saying wait a
minute look what I can do with this this
is a miracle and now we see as we've
done the analysis and you'll find this
in uh in big ideas that that $20
subscription that each of us pays here
at ARC uh well actually Arc pays for it
but the $20 per seat um subscription and
in uh a few cases the $200
uh per month subscription uh for those
heavy users uh the $20 we're paying off
in about a half days uh work. So the
payoff time is almost nothing uh as we
are able to do our research and leverage
our time enormously.
Uh we also think and this is this is
somewhat controversial because software
stocks have been going through a very
difficult time ironically through this
AI boom and it is because of the
disruption that AI is going to cause uh
to the in particular SAS uh but all
legacy software. uh we think that uh
software will grow the market will grow
at roughly 19% in our bare case to uh I
think it's 54% per year in our bull case
uh up from 14% per year over the last 5
to 10 years. Uh but you have to get on
the right side of change. A lot of those
software companies are in the private
markets, uh, OpenAI, Anthropic,
XAI,
uh, and
and in the public markets. The real
success story of course has been in the
platform as a service part of the tech
stack and that of course the poster
child there is Palunteer. So again, have
to get on the right side of change. I'm
not saying that all the SAS providers
are going to be crushed. It's going to
be like all legacy players. You'll
probably have, you know, the market
consolidate and there'll be one very big
player. You know, Walmart in retail, for
example,
uh is is um is how we're thinking about
this. or as we get into fintech and
blockchain technology and DeFi
disrupting the traditional financial
world, JP Morgan's probably going to be
fine. It is harnessing these
technologies and it probably will
consolidate the market. Um, I'd like to
flip back to the consumer side. So, I've
just given you more the enterprise side
on the consumer side. So uh Nick and
Vika have done this work and I think
they might have been two years ago the
first ones to even think about this
concept of an AI purchasing agent or now
we're calling them AI assistants
uh or and and other such things uh but
based on that work and you can see it in
big ideas they believe that the
advertising market is going to go uh to
65%
uh in this AI space AI generated space
uh and that shopping commerce will be I
I think that that it will be 25% of it
will be powered by the AI space. Uh so
stay tuned to uh or definitely take a
good look at their blogs and uh their
big ideas chart. Uh David in uh the
Bitcoin realm uh it's been controversial
this year because uh we had the draw
down after the flash crash 1010 uh in
October. Uh we think that a lot of the
deleveraging associated with really that
was a software glitch I think at Binance
uh that that deleveraging automated
deleveraging
um caused 28 billion dollars of carnage.
uh we think we've worked through that
now and I think the main question on uh
Bitcoiners minds is okay are we
finished with the traditional four-year
downdraft every four years a downdraft
in uh the cycle uh we're beginning to
think we are uh although we could base
here in the 80 to9,000
range for a while but we do believe the
next inflection is up. And while I know
I got we got a lot of publicity this
year because we talked about stable
coins usurping uh one of the roles we
expected Bitcoin to play. Uh now we
expected this 10 years ago before stable
coins happened on the scene. Um but uh
in terms of remittances uh and emerging
market uh activity, we're seeing stable
coins usurp that role that we thought uh
Bitcoin uh would would provide. Uh that
doesn't take away though from what we
think ultimately will happen to Bitcoin.
Bitcoin's role as digital go gold has
miles to go. Interestingly, and you'll
see this in my New Year letter, the
correlation between Bitcoin and gold has
been almost non-existent over Bitcoin's
life.14.
Um, nonetheless, we do think it is not
only a riskon asset thanks to the new
technology,
uh, but it is also a riskoff asset. It's
a hedge against inflation. Uh, its
growth rate is lower than gold's growth
rate. And I'll bet gold miners are doing
their darnest to get more of that stuff
out of the ground now that they're being
paid so much more. That can't happen
with Bitcoin. Uh, and Bitcoin miners
mathematically metered to top out at 21
million units. Uh so uh we do think it
will be a very important store of value
going forward uh particularly as we go
through the intergenerational wealth
wealth transfer that we expect during
the next um during the next 5 10 15
years. Um, we also uh had a lot more on
DeFi and tokenized assets. Uh, stable
coins, just a little bit more uh on
that. I think we passed $300 billion
globally in stable coins. We saw a a
very large increase in the in
tokenization
on on public blockchains up to uh 19
billion. Now that's a large increase. I
think that was a tripling or maybe even
more in the last year. But we ultimately
think that's going to 11 trillion uh
highlighted by public equities,
sovereign debt and bank deposits. So
it's going to be a very big market and
we are putting out a DeFi quarterly now
uh to uh accompany our Bitcoin
quarterly. Uh so stay tuned pay a lot of
attention there uh because there's a a
lot of excitement brewing and there will
be a lot of dislocations
uh in the financial sector uh because of
this wholesale shift uh really to a new
technology
uh and so we're pretty excited about
that. Um the other thing we'd like to
highlight is you know these these
companies their their productivity the
companies that are emerging their
productivity is astonishing. Uh Tether
for example last year uh we believed uh
I believe uh delivered uh $50 million
per employee.
Um that is unheard of unheard of. Uh but
we think the the capitalizing uh on all
of these new technologies is going to
drive productivity gains much higher
than people can even postulate right
now. And with that while many people are
afraid given the robotics movement of
you know and AI everyone being thrown
out of jobs we disagree. Uh we think
this is going to be one of the greatest
opportunities for the entrepreneurial
spirit in history. Uh especially because
you can go to chat GBT or Grock and and
say you know I think there's a huge
unmet need for this that or the other
product or service. Think about it. And
I would like to start that business.
Boy, when we started Arc there, I would
have loved to have a starting point like
that. And you can work with uh ChatgBT
uh XAI, Grock, uh to build your
business. Uh try it. If you're looking
for a job, uh figure out what's that
unmet need. Uh I'm going to try and
start that business. And uh believe me,
starting a business very exciting,
exhilarating actually uh but full of
risk. Remember, 90% of all startups
fail. So just go in soberly that way.
Make sure you're addressing a real unmet
need. And then harness AI, harness
blockchain technology, harness any of
these new technologies. Now when we get
to multiomics normally I start glazing
over but uh I think multiomics which is
life sciences and really the convergence
among sequencing technologies
uh artificial intelligence
and new technologies like crisper gene
editing. What are we doing? We're
diagnosing cancer in stage one or before
stage one. Polyps also shed into the
blood. And this is just with blood
tests. We're collapsing the cost of drug
discovery and development. We think it
could drop from 2.4 billion for one drug
uh to roughly 700 million over the next
four years. And that of course includes
the failures along the way. Uh and then
most provocatively and and Sheay uh has
done an amazing job of documenting
uh what a cure is going to be worth and
I have to give Brett Winton uh
incredible credit as he partnered with
Sheay uh on this project to uh try and
figure out how much is a cure worth. Uh
and we think while the cure for HE,
which is a very rare disease, uh would
be worth
$11 million.
One and done. You get this treatment and
you're done. Uh that's Intellia's um
trial right now and it's in vivo. You
don't have to go through any
excruciating preconditioning.
um it could be worth 11 million. That's
how much it would save the system. Uh
but they'll probably be able to charge
three million. And believe me, insurance
companies, they will have no problem
with that. Uh so take a look at that
section. It's it's fascinating. It's the
best one we've ever done. And then we
get into reusable rockets. Uh and it is
astonishing. SpaceX 10 years ahead.
of any competitor. It landed its first
reusable rocket in 2015 and now it owns
twothirds of the satellite market and
something like 85%
of all of the upmass uh put into orbit.
Uh and of course now uh we've discovered
a new use case and it couldn't happen
without reusable rockets
uh data centers in space and this is a
fairly new introduction to you know our
line of thinking and of course inspired
by Elon himself. Uh so take a look at uh
at our reusable rocket uh section and be
inspired by that whole new world that's
being developed. Many people when
they're talking about automation and AI
and unemployment. Uh one of the things I
say is wait a minute there are two new
worlds evolving here. Uh outer space a
completely new world. All kinds of jobs
are going to be associated with that. Uh
and then in the digital realm now thanks
to blockchain technology we are seeing
immutable property rights in the digital
realm for the first time. The the best
way to lift people and countries out of
poverty is with immutable
private property rights.
and that's what we have and it's just
starting. Uh so we're pretty excited
about that. Um and then we've got
distributed energy. We've done a lot
with nuclear uh power this past year. Uh
Daniel and Sam uh Chorus who've also
done our uh reusable rocket work. Um
it's excellent research. uh they uh have
done our work on nuclear power as well
and uh it is shocking uh to see how
regulation stunted the growth of nuclear
in the mid70s.
If
regulation had not stopped the cost
declines for developing nuclear plants
from continuing,
uh, electricity costs today would be 40%
lower than they are now. Uh so we have
high hopes that nuclear power is going
to help us uh once again uh as they
scale drive down the cost of electricity
and be a counterforce to the demands
that AI and data centers are are placing
on our grid right now. Uh so take a look
at that work. Uh and then of course of
course Tasha Keiny and Daniel again on
um other autonomous vehicles. So we've
got robots and rockets uh other
autonomous vehicles of course robo taxis
and we believe that we are in uh the
midst of the birthing of the robo taxi
market.
uh and uh you've seen our work there. Um
we've updated it uh uh to show that
Tesla's competitive edge over Whimo is
uh is has well at least according to our
estimates increased. We used to think
that their cost structure Tesla's cost
structure would be 35% lower than
Whimo's. uh but as we have refined our
analysis, we now believe it's going to
be 50% lower. And it is very interesting
uh to watch Uber and others uh trying to
insinuate themselves into this space.
They know it's important, but we have
been saying all along and still believe
that Uber and others will be lead
generators for Tesla and Whimo, which
will probably be number two as they
scale throughout the US. And one of the
most interesting piece of pieces of work
uh that Tasha and Daniel did this year
was on uh the percent of urban miles uh
that Uber covers uh right now in the
United States. It's about 1%. And so we
did a calculation. How many autonomous
vehicles
uh would Tesla have to produce or Whimo
uh to cover 1% of urban miles? Uh that
would be 140,000 units. Now what uh what
would be the number? How many vehicles
would it take to cover
all urban miles?
And that number is only 24
million. That is less than 10%
of the installed base of v of autos uh
in the US today. So that is a US uh that
is US analysis.
And uh we know that auto sales right now
they're at roughly 15 million uh per
year. That gives you a sense of how much
the auto market in terms of vehicles
produced could shrink and yet we could
still cover with autonomous vehicles
which obviously have much higher
utilization than personal vehicles. We
drive our cars four to 5% of the day
whereas an autonomous vehicle could be
50 60% of the day. Uh so you get the
sense of how much the vehicle market
could shrink and still we'd be able to
satisfy
100% of all the urban miles in uh the
United States today. uh and we do think
that uh and we still think that the
autonomous vehicle market will drive 30
I think it's 35 billion 34 trillion
sorry billions trillions um 34 trillion
dollar in market cap uh by 2030 in 2030
trillion for the global ecosystem
system, not only the auto providers and
the lead generators, but most
importantly the platform providers and
they will get the lion share of the
economics as Tasha and uh Daniel show
you and then finally autonomous
logistics
um autonomous trucks will cut delivery
costs by 60%.
Uh, drones and rolling robots are also
going to cut delivery costs
dramatically. Did you know there are
already 4 million deliveries per year by
drones? Uh, now to be sure, Zipline, uh,
one of the companies in our venture
fund, uh, is responsible for, I think,
half of those. Um but uh we believe that
the cost to deliver by drone uh will cut
delivery costs. Right now Door Dash $15
per uh to less than a dollar. So a 90%
reduction over time. So this is a hu
another huge market uh percolating out
there. And um we're so excited because
we believe we're now in the prime time
for the reason I founded ARK. I founded
ARC in 2014 for this reason. I felt that
ARC's research would fulfill an unmet
need. And I'm very proud of the research
we're doing. It's the kind of research
that investment banks used to do when
the M&A market uh was much more vibrant
than it has been for the last four
years. Uh in the under the last FTC, it
was shut down. So, our research has met
uh or fulfilled an unmet need. And we're
so happy to see our research in the
startup decks of so many startups out
there. Um because what are startups
doing? They're heads down trying to
innovate as fast as they can. And what
are we doing? We're helping to size the
markets they're going after. I think
that the wall of worry that we have been
facing in the last few years around
innovation
is great. I think it's great because of
course there are risks associated with
innovation. Uh but we think that the
flywheel now is in place so that this
innovation age is unstoppable.
And uh we'd welcome you to read our big
ideas 2026.